[DOCS-5813] "create a pipeline" text update (#5275)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/tutorials/create-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean.adoc

:toclevels: 3
:imagesdir: ../../book/resources

> This tutorial shows you how to use the link:/doc/book/blueocean/[Blue Ocean] feature of Jenkins to create a Pipeline that will orchestrate building a simple application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use the link:/doc/book/blueocean/[Blue Ocean] feature of Jenkins to create a Pipeline that orchestrates building a simple application.
```

> Before starting this tutorial, be sure to run through at least one of the initial tutorials from the link:..[Tutorials overview] page to familiarize yourself with CI/CD concepts, relevant to the technology stack you're most familiar with, and how these concepts are implemented in Jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start this tutorial, be sure to run through at least one of the initial tutorials from the link:..[Tutorials overview] page. This will help you learn about CI/CD concepts relevant to the technology stack you're most familiar with and how these concepts are implemented in Jenkins.
```

This tutorial uses the same application that the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm[Build a Node.js and React app with npm] tutorial is based on.

> Therefore, you're building the same application, but this time completely through Blue Ocean.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, you're building the same application, but this time, completely through Blue Ocean.
```

Since Blue Ocean provides a simplified Git-handling experience, you'll be interacting directly with the repository on GitHub, as opposed to a local clone.

> *Duration:* This tutorial takes 20-40 minutes to complete if you've already met the <<prerequisites,prerequisites>> below. The exact duration will depend on the speed of your machine and whether or not you've already <<run-jenkins-in-docker,run Jenkins in Docker>> from link:..[another tutorial].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Duration:* This tutorial takes 20-40 minutes to complete if you've already met the <<prerequisites,prerequisites>> below. The exact duration depends on the speed of your machine and whether you've already <<run-jenkins-in-docker,run Jenkins in Docker>> from link:..[another tutorial].
```

You can stop this tutorial at any point in time and continue from where you left
off.

> If you've already run though link:..[another tutorial], you can skip the <<prerequisites,Prerequisites>> and <<run-jenkins-in-docker,Run Jenkins in Docker>> sections below and proceed on to <<fork-sample-repository,forking the sample repository>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've already run though link:..[another tutorial], you can skip the <<prerequisites,Prerequisites>> and <<run-jenkins-in-docker,Run Jenkins in Docker>> sections below and proceed to <<fork-sample-repository,forking the sample repository>>.
```

> If you've already run though link:..[another tutorial], you can skip the <<prerequisites,Prerequisites>> and <<run-jenkins-in-docker,Run Jenkins in Docker>> sections below and proceed on to <<fork-sample-repository,forking the sample repository>>.

Reviewer 2: Heads up: if the <<prerequisites, Prerequisites>> formatting is intended to update the display text to lowercase, it is not rendering a such.

> If you need to restart Jenkins, simply follow the restart instructions in <<stopping-and-restarting-jenkins,Stopping and restarting Jenkins>> and then proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to restart Jenkins, follow the restart instructions in <<stopping-and-restarting-jenkins,Stopping and restarting Jenkins>> and then proceed.
```

include::doc/tutorials/_prerequisites.adoc[]

include::doc/book/installing/_run-jenkins-in-docker.adoc[]

[[fork-sample-repository]]
== Fork the sample repository on GitHub

Fork the simple "Welcome to React" Node.js and React application on GitHub into your own GitHub account.

. Ensure you are signed in to your GitHub account.
If you don't yet have a GitHub account, sign up for a free on the https://github.com/[GitHub website].

> . Fork the https://github.com/jenkins-docs/creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean[`creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean`]
> on GitHub into your local GitHub account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Fork the https://github.com/jenkins-docs/creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean[`creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean`]
repository on GitHub into your local GitHub account.
```

If you need help with this process, refer to the https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/[Fork A Repo] documentation on the GitHub website for more information.

> +

Reviewer 2: I think you need an empty line before this note for it to format correctly. But it looks like it is displaying ok. So I am not sure if it needs this or not for sure.
```suggestion

+
```

> NOTE: This is a different repository to the one used in the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm[Build a Node.js and React app with npm] tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This is a different repository than the one used in the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm[Build a Node.js and React app with npm] tutorial.
```

Although these repositories contain the same application code, ensure you fork and use the correct one before continuing.

== Create your Pipeline project in Blue Ocean

. Go back to Jenkins and ensure you have accessed the Blue Ocean interface.
To do this, make sure you:
* have browsed to `\http://localhost:8080/blue` and are logged in

> +

Reviewer 2: Other docs need this, but yours may be ok without - ?
```suggestion

+
```

or

> * have browsed to `\http://localhost:8080/`, are logged in and have selected *Open Blue Ocean* on the left hand side of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* have browsed to `\http://localhost:8080/`, are logged in, and have selected *Open Blue Ocean* on the left hand side of the screen.
```

> . In the *Welcome to Jenkins* box at the center of the Blue Ocean interface, select *Create a new Pipeline* to begin the Pipeline creation wizard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Welcome to Jenkins* box at the center of the Blue Ocean interface, select *Create a new Pipeline* to start the Pipeline creation wizard.
```

If you don't see this box, select *New Pipeline* at the top-right.

. In *Where do you store your code?*, select *GitHub*.
. In *Connect to GitHub*, select *Create an access key here*.
This opens GitHub in a new browser tab.

> +

Reviewer 2: Does it need this line spacing? 
```suggestion

+
```

> NOTE: If you previously configured Blue Ocean to connect to GitHub using a personal access token, then Blue Ocean takes you directly to step 9 <<choose-github-account,below>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you previously configured Blue Ocean to connect to GitHub using a personal access token, Blue Ocean takes you directly to step 9 <<choose-github-account,below>>.
```

> . In the new tab, sign in to your GitHub account if necessary, and on the GitHub *New Personal Access Token* page, specify a brief *Token description* for your GitHub access token, for example `Blue Ocean`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the new tab, sign in to your GitHub account if necessary. On the GitHub *New Personal Access Token* page, specify a brief *Token description* for your GitHub access token, for example `Blue Ocean`.
```

+
* An access token is usually an alphanumeric string that respresents your GitHub account, along with permissions to access various GitHub features and areas through your account.

> This access token will have the appropriate permissions pre-selected, which Blue Ocean requires to access and interact with your GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This access token has the appropriate permissions pre-selected that Blue Ocean requires to access and interact with your GitHub account.
```

. Scroll down to the end of the page, while leaving all other *Select scopes* options with their default settings, and select *Generate token*.

> . On the resulting *Personal access tokens* page, copy your newly generated access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Personal access tokens* page, copy your newly-generated access token.
```

. Back in Blue Ocean, paste the access token into the *Your GitHub access token*

> field and select *Connect*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field, and select *Connect*.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-01-connecting-to-github.png[alt="Connecting to GitHub",width=80%]

> +

Reviewer 2: There are a lot of these. ;) 
```suggestion

+
```

[[choose-github-account]]Jenkins now has access to your GitHub account, using your access token.

. In *Which organization does the repository belong to?*, select your GitHub account where you forked the repository <<fork-sample-repository,above>>.
. In *Choose a repository*, select your forked repository `creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean`.
. Select *Create Pipeline*.
* Blue Ocean detects that there is no Jenkinsfile at the root level of the repository's `master` branch and helps you create one.

> You'll need to click another *Create Pipeline* at the end of the page to proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must select another *Create Pipeline* at the end of the page to proceed.
```

> NOTE: Under the hood, a Pipeline project created through Blue Ocean is actually "multibranch Pipeline".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: Under the hood, a Pipeline project created through Blue Ocean is actually a "multibranch Pipeline".
```

Therefore, Jenkins looks for the presence of at least one Jenkinsfile in any branch of your repository.

=== Create your initial Pipeline

> . Following on from creating your Pipeline project <<create-your-pipeline-project-in-blue-ocean,above>>, in the Pipeline editor, select *docker* from the *Agent* dropdown in the *Pipeline Settings* panel on the right.

Reviewer 2: I am not looking at the UI, is Docker capitalized in the options? 
```suggestion
. Following on from creating your Pipeline project <<create-your-pipeline-project-in-blue-ocean,above>>, in the Pipeline editor, select *Docker* from the *Agent* dropdown in the *Pipeline Settings* panel on the right.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-11-initial-pipeline-editor-page.png[alt="Initial to GitHub",width=100%]
. In the *Image* and *Args* fields that appear, specify `node:6-alpine` and `-p 3000:3000` respectively.
+
[.boxshadow]

> image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-12-agent-section.png[alt="Configuring the agent",width=50%]

Reviewer 2: Do your pages render the `role="screenshot"` attribute for screenshots with a frame and the ability to select them to zoom? If so, you may want to add that to your new images.

Author: Hi @cari-mason so there are some functions that do not work in the Jenkins docs, I believe the screenshot role is one of those as I had tried it on the last tutorial I was working on, but it did not seem to work properly after testing with Kellie.

> +

Reviewer 2: I feel a little silly if these aren't needed. Maybe just test the page for how they render if there is an extra blank line to see if it is needed, and update each accordingly. I won't call out any more of these for this page, so as not to spam you with something that may not be needed. 
```suggestion

+
```

* For an explanation of these values, refer to annotations *1* and *2* of the Declarative Pipeline in the

> link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm/#create-your-initial-pipeline-as-a-jenkinsfile[``Create your initial Pipeline...'' section of the Build a Node.js and React app] tutorial.

Reviewer 2: You probably don't need all of this as a link, only the "Create your initial Pipeline"  - without the quotes. And leave the rest as normal font. But this is a style suggestion that is up to you.

> . Back in the main Pipeline editor, click the *+* icon, which opens the new stage panel on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the main Pipeline editor, select the *+* icon to open the new stage panel on the right.
```

> . Back in the main Pipeline editor, click the *+* icon, which opens the new stage panel on the right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Back in the main Pipeline editor, select the *+* icon, to open the new stage panel on the right.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-13-add-build-stage.png[alt="Add 'Build' stage",width=30%]

> . In this panel, type `Build` in the *Name your stage* field and then select the *Add Step* button below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In this panel, enter `Build` in the *Name your stage* field, and then select the *Add Step* button below.
```

> This opens the *Choose step type* panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Choose step type* panel opens.
```

Here you can enter this step's values.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-15-choosing-a-step-type.png[alt="Choosing a step type",width=50%]
+
TIP: The most commonly used step types appear closest to the top of this list. 
To find other steps further down this list, you can filter this list using the *Find steps by name* option.
. In the *Build / Shell Script* panel, specify `npm install`.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16-specifying-a-shell-step-value.png[alt="Specifying a shell step value",width=80%]
+
*Note:* For an explanation of this step, refer to annotation *4* of the Declarative Pipeline in the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm/#create-your-initial-pipeline-as-a-jenkinsfile["Create your initial Pipeline..." section of the Build a Node.js and React app] tutorial.
. ( _Optional_ ) Select the top-left back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the main Pipeline editor.
. Select *Save* at the top-right hand side of the screen to begin saving your new Pipeline with its "Build" stage.

> . In the *Save Pipeline* dialog box, type the commit message in the *Description* field, for example `Add initial Pipeline (Jenkinsfile)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Save Pipeline* dialog box, enter the commit message in the *Description* field, for example `Add initial Pipeline (Jenkinsfile)`.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-19b-main-blue-ocean-interface.png[alt="Main Blue Ocean interface",width=100%]
+
NOTE: Before continuing on, verify that Jenkins has created a `Jenkinsfile` for you at the root of your forked GitHub repository, in the repository's sole `master` branch.

=== Add a test stage to your Pipeline

. From the main Blue Ocean interface, select *Branches* in the top-right quadrant to access your repository's branches page, where you can access the `master` branch.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-21-repository-branches-page.png[alt="Repository branches page",width=100%]
. Select the `master` branch's "Edit Pipeline" icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-21a-edit-pipeline-on-branch.png[alt="Edit Pipeline on branch",width=3%] to open the Pipeline editor for this branch. 
+
. In the main Pipeline editor, select the *+* icon to the right of the *Build* stage you created <<create-your-initial-pipeline,above>> to open the new stage panel on the right.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-22-add-test-stage.png[alt="Add 'Test' stage",width=45%]

> . In this panel, type `Test` in the *Name your stage* field and then select the *Add Step* button below to open the *Choose step type* panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In this panel, enter `Test` in the *Name your stage* field, and then select the *Add Step* button below to open the *Choose step type* panel.
```

. In this panel, select *Shell Script* near the top of the list.
. In the resulting *Test / Shell Script* panel, specify `./jenkins/scripts/test.sh` and then select the top-left back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the Pipeline stage editor.
+
. At the lower-right of the panel, select *Settings* to reveal this section of
the panel.
. Select the *+* icon at the right of the *Environment* heading where you'll configure an environment directive.
. In the *Name* and *Value* fields that appear, specify `CI` and `true`, respectively.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-23-environment-directive.png[alt="Environment directive",width=50%]
+

> NOTE: For an explanation of this directive and its step, refer to annotations *1* and *3* of the Declarative Pipeline in the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm/#add-a-test-stage-to-your-pipeline[``Add a test stage...`` section of the Build a Node.js and React app] tutorial.

Reviewer 2: The quotes are not displayed around the "section" text like it is in the other examples. I am not sure why it isn't rendering the same. Maybe because there is an extra space? (In case you want to display the quotes. And for consistency.)

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-24-test-stage-runs-successfully-with-output.png[alt="Test stage runs successfully (with output)",width=100%]
+
TIP: You'll notice during this run that Jenkins no longer needs to download the Node Docker image.
Instead, Jenkins only needs to run a new container from the Node image downloaded previously.
Subsequent runs of your Pipeline should be much faster.

. Select the *X* at the top-right to return to the main Blue Ocean interface.

=== Add a final deliver stage to your Pipeline

. From the main Blue Ocean interface, select *Branches* at the top-right to access your repository's `master` branch.
. Select the `master` branch's "Edit Pipeline" icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-21a-edit-pipeline-on-branch.png[alt="Edit Pipeline on branch",width=3%] to open the Pipeline editor for this branch.
. In the main Pipeline editor, select the *+* icon to the right of the *Test* stage you created <<add-a-test-stage-to-your-pipeline,above>> to open the new stage panel.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-31-add-deliver-stage.png[alt="Add 'Deliver' stage",width=60%]

> . In this panel, type `Deliver` in the *Name your stage* field and then select *Add Step* below to open the *Choose step type* panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In this panel, enter `Deliver` in the *Name your stage* field, and then select *Add Step* below to open the *Choose step type* panel.
```

> . In this panel, select *Shell Script* near the top of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In this panel, select *Shell Script*.
```

> . In the resulting *Deliver / Shell Script* panel, specify `./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh` and then select the top-left back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the Pipeline stage editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the resulting *Deliver / Shell Script* panel, specify `./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh`, and then select the back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the Pipeline stage editor.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-32-add-next-step.png[alt="Add next step",width=50%]
+

> *Note:* For an explanation of this step, refer to the `deliver.sh` file itself located in the `jenkins/scripts` of your forked repository on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: Our notes also have different formatting. Not sure if you want to make your notes like CloudBees docs. See this page for examples: https://docs.beescloud.com/docs/beewrite/latest/syntax/admonitions

. Select *Add Step* again.

> . In the *Choose step type* panel, type `input` into the *Find steps by name* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Choose step type* panel, enter `input` in the *Find steps by name* field.
```

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-33-choosing-input-step-type.png[alt="Choosing the input step type",width=50%]
. Select the filtered *Wait for interactive input* step type.

> . In the resulting *Deliver / Wait for interactive input* panel, type `Finished using the web site? (Select "Proceed" to continue)` in the *Message* field and then select the top-left back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the Pipeline stage editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the resulting *Deliver / Wait for interactive input* panel, enter `Finished using the web site? (Select "Proceed" to continue)` in the *Message* field, and then select the back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the Pipeline stage editor.
```

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-34-specifying-input-step-message-value.png[alt="Specifying input step message value",width=55%]
+
*Note:* For an explanation of this step, refer to annotation *4* of the Declarative Pipeline in the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm/#add-a-final-deliver-stage-to-your-pipeline["Add a final deliver stage..." section of the Build a Node.js and React app] tutorial.

> . Select *Add Step* once more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Add Step*.
```

> . Select *Shell Script* near the top of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Shell Script*.
```

. In the resulting *Deliver / Shell Script* panel, specify `./jenkins/scripts/kill.sh`.
+
*Note:* For an explanation of this step, refer to the `kill.sh` file itself located in the `jenkins/scripts` of your forked repository on GitHub.

> . ( _Optional_ ) Select the top-left back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the main Pipeline editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. ( _Optional_ ) Select the back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the main Pipeline editor.
```

. Select *Save* at the top-right to begin saving your Pipeline with with its new "Deliver" stage.

> . In the *Save Pipeline* dialog box, type the commit message in the *Description* field, for example `Add 'Deliver' stage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Save Pipeline* dialog box, enter the commit message in the *Description* field, for example `Add 'Deliver' stage`.
```

> . Leaving all other options as is, select *Save & run*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Leaving all other options set to their default, select *Save & run*.
```

Jenkins proceeds to build your amended Pipeline.
. When the main Blue Ocean interface appears, select the _top_ row to see Jenkins build your Pipeline project.
+
If your amended Pipeline ran successfully, here's what the Blue Ocean interface should look like.
Notice the additional "Deliver" stage.
Selecting the previous "Test" and "Build" stage circles provides access to the outputs from those stages.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-35-deliver-stage-pauses-for-user-input.png[alt="Deliver stage pauses for user input",width=100%]
. Ensure you are viewing the "Deliver" stage, then select the green *`./jenkins/scripts/deliver.sh`* step to expand its content and scroll down until you see the `\http://localhost:3000` link.
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-36-deliver-stage-opened-deliver-sh-step.png[alt="Deliver stage output only",width=100%]

> . Click the `\http://localhost:3000` link to view your Node.js and React application running in development mode in a new web browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the `\http://localhost:3000` link to view your Node.js and React application running in development mode in a new web browser tab.
```

> You should see a page/site with the title *Welcome to React* on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see a page/site with the title *Welcome to React*.
```

> You should see a page/site with the title *Welcome to React* on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should see a page/site with the title *Welcome to React*.
```

=== Follow up (optional)

If you check the contents of the `Jenkinsfile` that Blue Ocean created at the root of your forked `creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean` repository, notice the location of the link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax#environment[`environment`] directive.
This directive's location within the "Test" stage means that the environment variable `CI`, with its value of `true`, is only available within the scope of this "Test" stage.

You can set this directive in Blue Ocean, so that its environment variable is available globally throughout Pipeline.
This is also configured in the link:../build-a-node-js-and-react-app-with-npm/[Build a Node.js and React app with npm] tutorial.

To do this:

. From the main Blue Ocean interface, select *Branches* at the top-right to access your repository's `master` branch.
. Select the `master` branch's "Edit Pipeline" icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-21a-edit-pipeline-on-branch.png[alt="Edit Pipeline on branch",width=3%] to open the Pipeline editor for this branch.
. In the main Pipeline editor, select the *Test* stage you created <<add-a-test-stage-to-your-pipeline,above>> to begin editing it.

> . In the stage panel on the right, select *Settings* to reveal this section of the panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the stage panel, select *Settings* to reveal this section of the panel.
```

> . Select the minus (*-*) icon at the right of the `CI` environment directive you created earlier to delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the minus (*-*) icon associated with the `CI` environment directive you created earlier to delete it.
```

> . Select the top-left back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the main Pipeline editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the back arrow icon image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-16a-return-from-step-icon.png[alt="Return from step icon",width=3%] to return to the main Pipeline editor.
```

> . In the *Pipeline Settings* panel, select the *+* icon at the right of the *Environment* heading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Pipeline Settings* panel, select the *+* icon at the right of the *Environment* heading.
```

Here, you'll configure a _global_ environment directive.

> . In the *Name* and *Value* fields that appear, specify `CI` and `true`, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Name* and *Value* fields, specify `CI` and `true`, respectively.
```

> . Select the *Save* button at the top-right to begin saving your Pipeline with with its relocated environment directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the *Save* button at the  to begin saving your Pipeline with with its relocated environment directive.
```

. In the *Save Pipeline* dialog box, specify the commit message in the *Description* field, for example `Make environment directive global`.

> . Leaving all other options as is, select *Save & run*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Leave all other options set to their default, and then select *Save & run*.
```

Jenkins proceeds to build your amended Pipeline.
. When the main Blue Ocean interface appears, select the _top_ row to see Jenkins build your Pipeline project.
+

> You should see the same build process as when you completed adding the final deliver stage (<<add-a-final-deliver-stage-to-your-pipeline,above>>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This starts the same build process as when you completed adding the final deliver stage (<<add-a-final-deliver-stage-to-your-pipeline,above>>).
```

However, when you inspect the `Jenkinsfile` again, you'll notice that the `environment` directive is now a sibling of the `agent` section.

== Wrapping up

> Well done! You've just used the Blue Ocean feature of Jenkins to build a simple Node.js and React application with npm!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well done! You've used the Blue Ocean feature of Jenkins to build a simple Node.js and React application with npm.
```

> The "Build", "Test" and "Deliver" stages you created above are the basis for building other applications in Jenkins with any technology stack, including more complex applications and ones that combine multiple technology stacks together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Build," "Test," and "Deliver" stages you created are the basis for building other applications in Jenkins with any technology stack, including more complex applications and ones that combine multiple technology stacks.
```

> Because Jenkins is extremely extensible, it can be modified and configured to handle practically any aspect of build orchestration and automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Jenkins is extremely extensible, it can be modified and configured to handle almost any aspect of build orchestration and automation.
```

To learn more about what Jenkins can do, check out:

* The link:/doc/tutorials[Tutorials overview] page for other introductory tutorials.
* The link:/doc/book[User Handbook] for more detailed information about using Jenkins, such as link:/doc/book/pipeline[Pipelines], link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax[Pipeline syntax], and the link:/doc/book/blueocean[Blue Ocean] interface.

> * The link:/node[Jenkins blog] for the latest events, other tutorials and updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The link:/node[Jenkins blog] for the latest events, other tutorials, and updates.
```

+
[[choose-github-account]]Jenkins now has access to your GitHub account, using your access token.
. In *Which organization does the repository belong to?*, select your GitHub account where you forked the repository <<fork-sample-repository,above>>.
. In *Choose a repository*, select your forked repository `creating-a-pipeline-in-blue-ocean`.
. Select *Create Pipeline*.
* Blue Ocean detects that there is no Jenkinsfile at the root level of the repository's `master` branch and helps you create one.
You must select *Create Pipeline* again at the end of the page to proceed.

TIP: Under the hood, a Pipeline project created through Blue Ocean is actually a "multibranch Pipeline".
Therefore, Jenkins looks for the presence of at least one Jenkinsfile in any branch of your repository.

=== Create your initial Pipeline

. Following on from creating your Pipeline project <<create-your-pipeline-project-in-blue-ocean,above>>, in the Pipeline editor, select *Docker* from the *Agent* dropdown in the *Pipeline Settings* panel on the right side of the page.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/pipeline-in-blueocean-11-initial-pipeline-editor-page.png[alt="Initial to GitHub",width=100%]

> . In the *Image* and *Args* fields that appear, specify `node:6-alpine` and `-p 3000:3000` respectively.

Reviewer 3: Could you try changing the node version to a newer version.  Does it still work?
```suggestion
. In the *Image* and *Args* fields that appear, specify `node:lts-alpine` and `-p 3000:3000` respectively.
```

Reviewer 3: @kmartens27 I realized that there is no compelling reason to delay the merge of this for my question about Alpine version.  Your new phrasing is a well-reviewed and well done improvement.

If you find that the newer version of Node.JS works as well, can you submit that change as a separate pull request?
